docs/2.5/trustedclusters.md, before:

# Dynamic Trusted Clusters

Dynamic Trusted Clusters can be used to configure Trusted Clusters in more
powerful ways than standard file configuration. If you have not already read the
documentation about [Trusted Clusters](admin-guide.md#trusted-clusters) from
Teleport, it would be helpful to review before continuing.

Some of the features Dynamic Trusted Clusters have:

* Add and remove Trusted Clusters without needing to restart Teleport.
* Enable/Disable Trusted Clusters from the Web UI.
* More sophisticated role mapping which allows you to map roles you have on your
  main cluster (which are encoded within your SSH certificate) to the role you
  assume when you connect to a node within the Trusted Cluster.

Below we will provide two example configurations. A simple configuration that
you can use to quickly get started with Trusted Clusters and a more
comprehensive configuration that illustrates some of the more powerful features
and abilities of Trusted Clusters.

## Simple Configuration

Similar to the example illustrated in the documentation for
[Trusted Clusters](admin-guide.md#trusted-clusters), suppose you have a remote
cluster that sits in a restricted environment which you can not directly connect
to due to firewall rules but you have no other access control restrictions
(anyone user in your main cluster should also be able to access any node within
the Trusted Cluster).

### Secret Tokens

When creating Trusted Clusters dynamically, Teleport requires that the Trusted
Cluster know the value of a secret token generated by the main cluster. It uses
this value to establish trust between clusters during the initial exchange. Due
to the sensitive nature of this token, we recommend you use  secure channel to
exchange this token so it doesn't fall into the hands of an attacker. Secret
tokens can be either static (long lived) or dynamic (short lived).

To create a dynamic token on the main cluster which lasts only 5 minutes, use
the following command:

```
$ tctl nodes add --ttl=5m --roles=trustedcluster
``` 

If you need long lived static tokens, generate the token out-of-band and add it
to your configuration file on the main cluster:

```yaml
auth_service:
  enabled: yes
  cluster_name: main
  tokens:
    # generate a large random number for your token, we recommend
    # using a tool like `pwgen` to generate sufficiently random
    # tokens of length greater than 32 bytes
    - "trustedcluster:fake-token"
```

#### Security Implications

Consider the security implications when deciding which token method to use.
Short lived tokens decrease the window for attack but also make automation more
difficult. Inherent to their nature, short lived tokens also make it difficult
to allow your customers the ability to enable/disable a Trusted Cluster because
the token exchange has to re-occur if they want to re-establish trust which they
can't do with an expired token.

If even short lived tokens are not acceptable for your threat model, consider
using file configuration that requires to you manually verify and add the keys
for clusters you trust. Note however that if you use the standard file
configuration method, the features below are not available.

### Resources

To configure your clusters, you will need create the resources we describe below.

#### Roles

Because each cluster is independent, both specify their own roles and we need to
create these before we do anything else. Below is a description of the roles and
resource files that need to be created within Teleport.

On the main cluster, you'll need to create the following two roles. The admin
role allows you to access all servers and the staging role will limit you to
serves with the `type=staging` label. Create the above two roles with `tctl
create -f {file name}`.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: admin
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ root ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    '*': '*'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```
```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: staging
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ root ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  node_labels:
    'type': 'staging'
```

On the Trusted Cluster, you'll need to create an admin role as well. Note the
`logins` field, this is a list of usernames that the user will be able to login
as. Once again, create it with `tctl create -f {file name}`.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: admin
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ root ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    '*': '*'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```

##### Trusted Cluster Resources

The Trusted Cluster resource is used to both establish trust between the two
clusters and map roles from one cluster to another. 

In the resource file below you'll note that we have a `token` field, this is the
same token that was generated on the main cluster and is used to establish
trust.

We also have a `role_map` field which describes how a users roles from the main
cluster (which are encoded in the users SSH certificate) are mapped to roles in
the Trusted Cluster. In this case, we are mapping all roles from the rote
cluster to the local admin role. Note users with the staging role will also be
able to access the Trusted Cluster. Take a look at the comprehensive
configuration section for more details on how to control access.

```yaml
kind: trusted_cluster
version: v1
metadata:
  description: "Remote Cluster"
  name: "Remote Cluster"
  namespace: "default"
spec:
  enabled: true
  role_map:
    - remote: "*"
      local: [admin]
  token: "fake-token"
  tunnel_addr: <main-addr>:3024
  web_proxy_addr: <main-addr>:3080
```

To disable a Trusted Cluster, simply user `tctl create -f {file name}` again but
this time set `enabled: false`. 

#### Verify

That's it. To verify that you can see your Trusted Cluster, run the following
command:

```
$ tsh --proxy=<proxy-addr> clusters
Cluster Name     Status
--------------   ------
Main             online
Remote Cluster   online
```

## Comprehensive Configuration

Suppose you sell an Enterprise version of your application that runs on your
customers infrastructure. You want an easy way to access your customers
infrastructure in-case you need to troubleshoot problems that may arise. In
addition, since you may have multiple customers, you want to limit your users to
only have access to the customer cluster they need access to.

More formally, you have the following:

Cluster Name | Description
-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
main         | This is your own cluster, the other Trusted Cluster will dial into this cluster.
acme         | This cluster belongs to your customer Acme Corporation.
emca         | This cluster belongs to your customer Emca Corporation.

Teleport User | Description 
--------------|----------------------
james         | Support Engineer that handles Acme Corporation.
john          | Support Engineer that handles Emca Corporation.
robert        | Support Engineer that handles Acme and Emca Corporation.

### Secret Token

See the [Secret Token](#secret-token) configuration section in the
[Simple Configuration](#simple-configuration).

### Resources

To configure your clusters, you will need create the resources we describe
below.

#### Roles

Because each cluster is independent, both specify their own roles and we need to
create these before we do anything else. Below is a description of the roles and
resource files that need to be created within Teleport.

On the main cluster, you'll need to create two roles. One that will be used to
access Acme Corporations cluster and another for Emca Corporation. Note these
are roles are local roles that will be mapped to remote roles. The way they are
configured they have full access to all nodes within the main cluster but can be
limited roles in the main cluster and admin roles in the remote cluster if need
be by restricting them here.

To create the roles, create the below files and then use `tctl create -f {file
name}`.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: acme-support
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ root, acme ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    '*': '*'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```
```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: emca-support
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ root, emca ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    '*': '*'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```

On the Acme cluster, you'll need to at least create a role that allows you to
access nodes within it. The following role allows you to access all nodes and
resources within the Acme cluster and only allows you to login as the `acme`
user. Once again use `tctl create -f {file name}`

```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: admin
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ acme ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    '*': '*'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```

Lastly, on the Emca cluster, create an admin role that only allows you to access
nodes with the label `access=relaxed` and only allows you to login as the `emca`
user. This is a way to restrict access within a cluster even further.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: admin
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ emca ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    'access': 'relaxed'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```

#### Users

Now that you have roles created, you need create users and assign these users
roles.

On your main cluster, create users using the normal method you use. Then run the
following commands to assign users the appropriate roles. This will allow the
user `james` access to Acme Corporations cluster, the user `john` access to the
Emca Corporation cluster, and the user `robert` will have access to both.

```
$ tctl users update james --set-roles=user:james,acme-support
$ tctl users update john --set-roles=user:john,emca-support
$ tctl users update robert --set-roles=user:robert,acme-support,emca-support
```

#### Trusted Cluster Resources

The Trusted Cluster resource is used to both establish trust between the two
clusters and map roles from one cluster to another. 

In the resource files below you'll note that we have a `token` field, this is
the same token that was generated on the main cluster and is used to establish
trust.

We also have a `role_map` field which describes how a users roles from the main
cluster (which are encoded in the users SSH certificate) are mapped to roles in
the Trusted Cluster. In this case, for each cluster we are mapping either
`acme-support` or `emca-support` to the local role `admin`. This means the user
`james` will have full access to the Acme cluster, while `john` only has access
to the nodes with access `relaxed` in the Emca cluster, and `robert` will have
full access to Acme and limit access to Emca. 

```yaml
kind: trusted_cluster
version: v1
metadata:
  description: "Remote Cluster"
  name: "Acme Cluster"
  namespace: "default"
spec:
  enabled: true
  role_map:
    - remote: "acme-support"
      local: [admin]
    - remote: "emca-support"
      local: [admin]
  token: "fake-token"
  tunnel_addr: <main-addr>:3024
  web_proxy_addr: <main-addr>:3080
```
```yaml
kind: trusted_cluster
version: v1
metadata:
  description: "Remote Cluster"
  name: "Emca Cluster"
  namespace: "default"
spec:
  enabled: true
  role_map:
    - remote: "emca-support"
      local: [admin]
  token: "fake-token"
  tunnel_addr: <main-addr>:3024
  web_proxy_addr: <main-addr>:3080
```

To disable a Trusted Cluster, simply user `tctl create -f {file name}` again but
this time set `enabled: false`. 

#### Verify

That's it. To verify that you can see your Trusted Cluster, run the following
command:

```
$ tsh --proxy=<proxy-addr> clusters
Cluster Name     Status
--------------   ------
Main             online
Acme Cluster     online
Emca Cluster     online
```

Commit message:

New trusted clusters documentation + guide

docs/2.5/trustedclusters.md, after:

# Trusted Clusters

The concept of Trusted Clusters allows Teleport administrators to connect
multiple Teleport clusters together, letting users of one cluster to seamlessly
SSH into the nodes of another cluster without having to re-login.

If you haven't already looked at the introduction to [Trusted Clusters](admin-guide.md#trusted-clusters) 
it would be helpful to go over it before continuing with this guide.

This guide covers the following topics:

* How to add and remove trusted clusters using CLI commands.
* Enable/disable trust between clusters.
* Establish permissions mapping using Teleport roles.

Below we will provide two example configurations. A simple configuration that
you can use to quickly get started with Trusted Clusters and a more
comprehensive configuration that illustrates some of the more powerful features
and abilities of Trusted Clusters.

## Simple Configuration

Similar to the example illustrated in the documentation for
[Trusted Clusters](admin-guide.md#trusted-clusters), suppose you have a remote
cluster that sits in a restricted environment which you can not directly connect
to due to firewall rules but you have no other access control restrictions
(anyone user in your main cluster should also be able to access any node within
the Trusted Cluster).

### Secret Tokens

When creating Trusted Clusters dynamically, Teleport requires that the Trusted
Cluster know the value of a secret token generated by the main cluster. It uses
this value to establish trust between clusters during the initial exchange. Due
to the sensitive nature of this token, we recommend you use  secure channel to
exchange this token so it doesn't fall into the hands of an attacker. Secret
tokens can be either static (long lived) or dynamic (short lived).

To create a dynamic token on the main cluster which lasts only 5 minutes, use
the following command:

```
$ tctl nodes add --ttl=5m --roles=trustedcluster
``` 

If you need long lived static tokens, generate the token out-of-band and add it
to your configuration file on the main cluster:

```yaml
auth_service:
  enabled: yes
  cluster_name: main
  tokens:
    # generate a large random number for your token, we recommend
    # using a tool like `pwgen` to generate sufficiently random
    # tokens of length greater than 32 bytes
    - "trustedcluster:fake-token"
```

#### Security Implications

Consider the security implications when deciding which token method to use.
Short lived tokens decrease the window for attack but also make automation more
difficult. Inherent to their nature, short lived tokens also make it difficult
to allow your customers the ability to enable/disable a Trusted Cluster because
the token exchange has to re-occur if they want to re-establish trust which they
can't do with an expired token.

If even short lived tokens are not acceptable for your threat model, consider
using file configuration that requires to you manually verify and add the keys
for clusters you trust. Note however that if you use the standard file
configuration method, the features below are not available.

### Resources

To configure your clusters, you will need create the resources we describe below.

#### Roles

Because each cluster is independent, both specify their own roles and we need to
create these before we do anything else. Below is a description of the roles and
resource files that need to be created within Teleport.

On the main cluster, you'll need to create the following two roles. The admin
role allows you to access all servers and the staging role will limit you to
serves with the `type=staging` label. Create the above two roles with `tctl
create -f {file name}`.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: admin
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ root ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    '*': '*'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```
```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: staging
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ root ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  node_labels:
    'type': 'staging'
```

On the Trusted Cluster, you'll need to create an admin role as well. Note the
`logins` field, this is a list of usernames that the user will be able to login
as. Once again, create it with `tctl create -f {file name}`.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: admin
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ root ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    '*': '*'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```

##### Trusted Cluster Resources

The Trusted Cluster resource is used to both establish trust between the two
clusters and map roles from one cluster to another. 

In the resource file below you'll note that we have a `token` field, this is the
same token that was generated on the main cluster and is used to establish
trust.

We also have a `role_map` field which describes how a users roles from the main
cluster (which are encoded in the users SSH certificate) are mapped to roles in
the Trusted Cluster. In this case, we are mapping all roles from the rote
cluster to the local admin role. Note users with the staging role will also be
able to access the Trusted Cluster. Take a look at the comprehensive
configuration section for more details on how to control access.

```yaml
kind: trusted_cluster
version: v1
metadata:
  description: "Remote Cluster"
  name: "Remote Cluster"
  namespace: "default"
spec:
  enabled: true
  role_map:
    - remote: "*"
      local: [admin]
  token: "fake-token"
  tunnel_addr: <main-addr>:3024
  web_proxy_addr: <main-addr>:3080
```

To disable a Trusted Cluster, simply user `tctl create -f {file name}` again but
this time set `enabled: false`. 

#### Verify

That's it. To verify that you can see your Trusted Cluster, run the following
command:

```
$ tsh --proxy=<proxy-addr> clusters
Cluster Name     Status
--------------   ------
Main             online
Remote Cluster   online
```

## Comprehensive Configuration

Suppose you sell an Enterprise version of your application that runs on your
customers infrastructure. You want an easy way to access your customers
infrastructure in-case you need to troubleshoot problems that may arise. In
addition, since you may have multiple customers, you want to limit your users to
only have access to the customer cluster they need access to.

More formally, you have the following:

Cluster Name | Description
-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
main         | This is your own cluster, the other Trusted Cluster will dial into this cluster.
acme         | This cluster belongs to your customer Acme Corporation.
emca         | This cluster belongs to your customer Emca Corporation.

Teleport User | Description 
--------------|----------------------
james         | Support Engineer that handles Acme Corporation.
john          | Support Engineer that handles Emca Corporation.
robert        | Support Engineer that handles Acme and Emca Corporation.

### Secret Token

See the [Secret Token](#secret-token) configuration section in the
[Simple Configuration](#simple-configuration).

### Resources

To configure your clusters, you will need create the resources we describe
below.

#### Roles

Because each cluster is independent, both specify their own roles and we need to
create these before we do anything else. Below is a description of the roles and
resource files that need to be created within Teleport.

On the main cluster, you'll need to create two roles. One that will be used to
access Acme Corporations cluster and another for Emca Corporation. Note these
are roles are local roles that will be mapped to remote roles. The way they are
configured they have full access to all nodes within the main cluster but can be
limited roles in the main cluster and admin roles in the remote cluster if need
be by restricting them here.

To create the roles, create the below files and then use `tctl create -f {file
name}`.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: acme-support
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ root, acme ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    '*': '*'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```
```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: emca-support
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ root, emca ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    '*': '*'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```

On the Acme cluster, you'll need to at least create a role that allows you to
access nodes within it. The following role allows you to access all nodes and
resources within the Acme cluster and only allows you to login as the `acme`
user. Once again use `tctl create -f {file name}`

```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: admin
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ acme ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    '*': '*'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```

Lastly, on the Emca cluster, create an admin role that only allows you to access
nodes with the label `access=relaxed` and only allows you to login as the `emca`
user. This is a way to restrict access within a cluster even further.

```yaml
kind: role
version: v2
metadata:
  name: admin
  namespace: default
spec:
  logins: [ emca ]
  max_session_ttl: 90h0m0s
  namespaces: ['*']
  node_labels:
    'access': 'relaxed'
  resources:
    '*': [read, write]
```

#### Users

Now that you have roles created, you need create users and assign these users
roles.

On your main cluster, create users using the normal method you use. Then run the
following commands to assign users the appropriate roles. This will allow the
user `james` access to Acme Corporations cluster, the user `john` access to the
Emca Corporation cluster, and the user `robert` will have access to both.

```
$ tctl users update james --set-roles=user:james,acme-support
$ tctl users update john --set-roles=user:john,emca-support
$ tctl users update robert --set-roles=user:robert,acme-support,emca-support
```

#### Trusted Cluster Resources

The Trusted Cluster resource is used to both establish trust between the two
clusters and map roles from one cluster to another. 

In the resource files below you'll note that we have a `token` field, this is
the same token that was generated on the main cluster and is used to establish
trust.

We also have a `role_map` field which describes how a users roles from the main
cluster (which are encoded in the users SSH certificate) are mapped to roles in
the Trusted Cluster. In this case, for each cluster we are mapping either
`acme-support` or `emca-support` to the local role `admin`. This means the user
`james` will have full access to the Acme cluster, while `john` only has access
to the nodes with access `relaxed` in the Emca cluster, and `robert` will have
full access to Acme and limit access to Emca. 

```yaml
kind: trusted_cluster
version: v1
metadata:
  description: "Remote Cluster"
  name: "Acme Cluster"
  namespace: "default"
spec:
  enabled: true
  role_map:
    - remote: "acme-support"
      local: [admin]
    - remote: "emca-support"
      local: [admin]
  token: "fake-token"
  tunnel_addr: <main-addr>:3024
  web_proxy_addr: <main-addr>:3080
```
```yaml
kind: trusted_cluster
version: v1
metadata:
  description: "Remote Cluster"
  name: "Emca Cluster"
  namespace: "default"
spec:
  enabled: true
  role_map:
    - remote: "emca-support"
      local: [admin]
  token: "fake-token"
  tunnel_addr: <main-addr>:3024
  web_proxy_addr: <main-addr>:3080
```

To disable a Trusted Cluster, simply user `tctl create -f {file name}` again but
this time set `enabled: false`. 

#### Verify

That's it. To verify that you can see your Trusted Cluster, run the following
command:

```
$ tsh --proxy=<proxy-addr> clusters
Cluster Name     Status
--------------   ------
Main             online
Acme Cluster     online
Emca Cluster     online
```
